---
layout:     post
title:      Leetcode 206. Reverse Linked List
subtitle:   Lintcode 35. Reverse Linked List
date:       2019-11-02
author:     Olivia Liu
header-img: img/post-bg-os-metro.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
    - LeetCode
    - LintCode
    - C++
    - English Version
    - LinkedList
    - easy

---

## Description

 Reverse a singly linked list. 


## Examples
```
Input: 1->2->3->4->5->NULL
Output: 5->4->3->2->1->NULL
```

## Answer

This question can be solved in both recursive and iterative ways.

### Recursive Solution

​    First decide if the input `head` is `NULL` or it does not have the next node. If yes, then return `head`. The main idea of using recursion to solve the problem is to find the ending of the given linked list and let the last node be the new head of the reversed linked list. After finding the new head, the next thing to do is to let the node before the new head be the next node of the new head, and keep doing these upwards until the outermost function return its result. To find the node before the each node, we need a node called `temp`  to be the nodes in the new reversed linked list, and each time its value equals to the function result of input node's next. Then the input node is automatically the previous node of `temp`. And the result of function is `temp`. 

### Iterative Solution

​    The main idea is basically the same with recursive solution. The difference is that recursive solution goes way down and then back upwards but iterative solution is a one-way method that the method goes directly downwards with no turning back. We need two pointers: `pre` to be the node in the new reversed list initialized as `pre->next = head` and `cur` to record the next node in the original linked list initialized as `cur = head`. 

​    Inside  the loop, we need another node `temp` to save the original state of `pre->next` since it will be used in follow. First set the `pre->next` to the `cur->next` as the method is now dealing with the next node, and then move `cur->next` to its next node for the next iteration. At the end of one loop, set `pre->next->next` to `temp` to reverse the order. 

### Time Complexity

​    The complexity of each method is both O(n) with n as the length of the given linked list. 

## Code

### C++

```c++
class Solution {
public:
	// Recursive version
    ListNode* reverseList(ListNode* head) {
        if(head == nullptr || head->next == nullptr) return head;
        ListNode* temp = reverseList(head -> next);
        head->next->next = head;
        head->next = NULL;
        return temp;
    }
};

class Solution {
public: // Iteration version
    ListNode* reverseList(ListNode* head) {
        ListNode* pre = new ListNode(0);
        pre->next = head;
        ListNode* cur = head;
        while(cur && cur->next)
        {
            ListNode* temp = pre->next;
            pre->next = cur->next;
            cur->next = cur->next->next;
            pre->next->next = temp;
        }
        return pre->next;
    }
};

```